so this is a bandsaw this is used for cutting bone
you never cut meat on a bandsaw this is used in a
lot of retail butchery shops not particularly
do you see a great deal within the culinary
industry but you will see it sometimes it
was very classical back in the day when i
first started in the industry we'd actually cut
the bones of the veal stock on a bandsaw so you
get more of the gelatine out and get a more
gelatinous beef stock what you should always
do with any machinery is make sure that it is
unplugged before you start it before you clean it
before you start doing any operations of any
sort so right now I'm just going to plug this in
once the bandsaw is plugged in
same with all of the electrical
equipment that we're going to be using make sure
that it is turned off so you always have a red
and a green button the red button is for
stop the green is for go normally the red
button protrudes so you can hit it very
quickly if you need to stop it quickly
so you can see there that the bandsaw starts
to turn there's a motor inside the bandsaw
so that blade is spinning around very very
quickly what we're going to be doing today
is cutting a veal shin what
you never do is actually cut
meat on a bandsaw what you want to do is
just actually cut the bone so here is our
veal shin chin or shank and we've already cut
through the meat so we can see the bone
as we put it onto the bandsaw just to make sure
that it's going through cleanly otherwise the
actual blade would tear the actual meat what i'm
always going to do is wear a mesh vest like this
something very important if perhaps that blade
did break on me and it came towards me I would
be very safe there it's protecting me and I'm also
going to wear safety goggles too so if you goggles
their design you might get bone fragment, you don't want anything
that might even you know sort of go towards
your eyes you want to make sure you're well
protected so I'm going to put on safety goggles
and now I'm just going to turn on the bandsaw
and now I'm just going to cut through the bone
just to let that come to a complete stop so
there we can see we have actually cut here
an ossobuco the sort of white bone fragment around
also so before you ever cook something like that
what you're going to do is get a scraper and you
scrape off all of the bone fragments as well and
you can see a very clean cut through the bone
here and it's actually so sharp you can actually
see the bone marrow in the bone as well so again
this will be a classic ossobuco beef or veal shin
and that's what we would traditionally
use the bandsaw for cutting with